# Degree project for Bachelor of Science
## Phenotyping of the fld-1 mutant previously isolated in a paqr-2 suppressor screen

### Abstract
The Adiponectin receptors AdipoR1 and AdipoR2 in mammals are studied primarily because of their suspected anti-diabetic functions. The C. elegans AdipoR2 homolog paqr-2 has previously been described and shows three distinct phenotypes: a withered tail-tip, intolerance to temperatures under 15 °C and intolerance to glucose. The paqr-2 mutant shows an increase of saturated fatty acids (SFA) and this increase could be linked to both the cold intolerance and glucose intolerance. When grown on culture plates containing glucose the amount of SFA in the membrane phospholipids of the paqr-2 mutant increases even more, as though this mutant cannot regulate the levels of SFAs. Recently, several mutations in the fld-1 gene were discovered to suppress paqr-2 phenotypes, including the glucose sensitivity. In other words, the fld-1 mutations rescue the paqr-2 mutant and act as suppressors of the glucose intolerance in that mutant. The aim of the present project was to try to discover phenotypes in the fld-1 single mutant using a variety of assays. Unexpectedly, no obvious differences between wild type worms and the fld-1 mutant worms were found. Specifically, fld-1 mutants had normal life span, brood size, defecation rates, pharyngeal pumping rates, locomotion rate, temperature tolerance and tolerance to a mild detergent. The function of fld-1 remains therefore unclear.
